# Coordination

### ["No, to the Right" -- Online Language Corrections for Robotic Manipulation via Shared Autonomy](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.02555)

Systems for language-guided human-robot interaction must satisfy two key desiderata for broad adoption: adaptivity and learning efficiency. Unfortunately, existing instruction-following agents cannot adapt, lacking the ability to incorporate online natural language supervision, and even if they could, require hundreds of demonstrations to learn even simple policies. In this work, we address these problems by presenting Language-Informed Latent Actions with Corrections (LILAC), a framework for incorporating and adapting to natural language corrections - "to the right," or "no, towards the book" - online, during execution. We explore rich manipulation domains within a shared autonomy paradigm. Instead of discrete turn-taking between a human and robot, LILAC splits agency between the human and robot: language is an input to a learned model that produces a meaningful, low-dimensional control space that the human can use to guide the robot. Each real-time correction refines the human's control space, enabling precise, extended behaviors - with the added benefit of requiring only a handful of demonstrations to learn. We evaluate our approach via a user study where users work with a Franka Emika Panda manipulator to complete complex manipulation tasks. Compared to existing learned baselines covering both open-loop instruction following and single-turn shared autonomy, we show that our corrections-aware approach obtains higher task completion rates, and is subjectively preferred by users because of its reliability, precision, and ease of use.

### [Few-Shot Preference Learning for Human-in-the-Loop RL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.03363)

We present an orientation adaptive controller to compensate for the effects of highly constrained environments on continuum manipulator actuation. A transformation matrix updated using optimal estimation techniques from optical flow measurements captured by the distal camera is composed with any Jacobian estimation or kinematic model to compensate for these effects. By utilizing domain knowledge to define the structure of this matrix, fewer parameters need to be estimated and a stable controller can be guaranteed. The algorithm is tested on a custom robotic catheter and convergence is shown both empirically and theoretically.

### [AGENT: A Benchmark for Core Psychological Reasoning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.12321)

For machine agents to successfully interact with humans in real-world settings, they will need to develop an understanding of human mental life. Intuitive psychology, the ability to reason about hidden mental variables that drive observable actions, comes naturally to people: even pre-verbal infants can tell agents from objects, expecting agents to act efficiently to achieve goals given constraints. Despite recent interest in machine agents that reason about other agents, it is not clear if such agents learn or hold the core psychology principles that drive human reasoning. Inspired by cognitive development studies on intuitive psychology, we present a benchmark consisting of a large dataset of procedurally generated 3D animations, AGENT (Action, Goal, Efficiency, coNstraint, uTility), structured around four scenarios (goal preferences, action efficiency, unobserved constraints, and cost-reward trade-offs) that probe key concepts of core intuitive psychology. We validate AGENT with human-ratings, propose an evaluation protocol emphasizing generalization, and compare two strong baselines built on Bayesian inverse planning and a Theory of Mind neural network. Our results suggest that to pass the designed tests of core intuitive psychology at human levels, a model must acquire or have built-in representations of how agents plan, combining utility computations and core knowledge of objects and physics.
