# External Knowledge

### [Real-World Robot Learning with Masked Visual Pre-training](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.03109)

In this work, we explore self-supervised visual pre-training on images from diverse, in-the-wild videos for real-world robotic tasks. Like prior work, our visual representations are pre-trained via a masked autoencoder (MAE), frozen, and then passed into a learnable control module. Unlike prior work, we show that the pre-trained representations are effective across a range of real-world robotic tasks and embodiments. We find that our encoder consistently outperforms CLIP (up to 75%), supervised ImageNet pre-training (up to 81%), and training from scratch (up to 81%). Finally, we train a 307M parameter vision transformer on a massive collection of 4.5M images from the Internet and egocentric videos, and demonstrate clearly the benefits of scaling visual pre-training for robot learning.

### [Do As I Can, Not As I Say: Grounding Language in Robotic Affordances](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.01691)

Large language models can encode a wealth of semantic knowledge about the world. Such knowledge could be extremely useful to robots aiming to act upon high-level, temporally extended instructions expressed in natural language. However, a significant weakness of language models is that they lack real-world experience, which makes it difficult to leverage them for decision making within a given embodiment. For example, asking a language model to describe how to clean a spill might result in a reasonable narrative, but it may not be applicable to a particular agent, such as a robot, that needs to perform this task in a particular environment. We propose to provide real-world grounding by means of pretrained skills, which are used to constrain the model to propose natural language actions that are both feasible and contextually appropriate. The robot can act as the language model's "hands and eyes," while the language model supplies high-level semantic knowledge about the task. We show how low-level skills can be combined with large language models so that the language model provides high-level knowledge about the procedures for performing complex and temporally-extended instructions, while value functions associated with these skills provide the grounding necessary to connect this knowledge to a particular physical environment. We evaluate our method on a number of real-world robotic tasks, where we show the need for real-world grounding and that this approach is capable of completing long-horizon, abstract, natural language instructions on a mobile manipulator.

### [R3M: A Universal Visual Representation for Robot Manipulation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.12601)

We study how visual representations pre-trained on diverse human video data can enable data-efficient learning of downstream robotic manipulation tasks. Concretely, we pre-train a visual representation using the Ego4D human video dataset using a combination of time-contrastive learning, video-language alignment, and an L1 penalty to encourage sparse and compact representations. The resulting representation, R3M, can be used as a frozen perception module for downstream policy learning. Across a suite of 12 simulated robot manipulation tasks, we find that R3M improves task success by over 20% compared to training from scratch and by over 10% compared to state-of-the-art visual representations like CLIP and MoCo. Furthermore, R3M enables a Franka Emika Panda arm to learn a range of manipulation tasks in a real, cluttered apartment given just 20 demonstrations.

### [RT-1: Robotics Transformer for Real-World Control at Scale](https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.06817)

By transferring knowledge from large, diverse, task-agnostic datasets, modern machine learning models can solve specific downstream tasks either zero-shot or with small task-specific datasets to a high level of performance. While this capability has been demonstrated in other fields such as computer vision, natural language processing or speech recognition, it remains to be shown in robotics, where the generalization capabilities of the models are particularly critical due to the difficulty of collecting real-world robotic data. We argue that one of the keys to the success of such general robotic models lies with open-ended task-agnostic training, combined with high-capacity architectures that can absorb all of the diverse, robotic data. In this paper, we present a model class, dubbed Robotics Transformer, that exhibits promising scalable model properties. We verify our conclusions in a study of different model classes and their ability to generalize as a function of the data size, model size, and data diversity based on a large-scale data collection on real robots performing real-world tasks.
